# Can you explain what cobol stands for and its primary uses?
Invented in 1959
Cobol stands for (Common business oriented language), designed for data processing 
- Financial
- governamental
- administrative 

# What are the four divisions of a COBOL PROGRAM?
- identification divison for metadata about the program
- environment division
- data division
- procedure division

# How do you define a simple variable in COBOL?
You have to provide a level number, variable name pic clause and data type

# What is the difference between pic x and pic 9?
X is used for alphanumeric and 9 for numeric values

# How do you display output in cobol?
Using the DISPLAY KEYWORD

# What is the purpose of working storage section?
Is a section inside data division used to define global variables that will retain their values throughout execution

# What is the differnce between working-storage and local-storage? 
Working storage retain the values while its executing meanwhile local-storage cleans the variables each times it executes

# What is the MOVE statement used for? 
Used to transfer data from one field to another

# How do you handle loops in cobol?
- The first way is using the times clause

```
perform <something> 5 times.
```

- Using the until clause
This is similar to a while loop in other languages
``` cobol
i = 0
perform until i > 10

end perform.
```

- perform varying
Which is similar to a for loop
```
perform varying i from 1 by 1 until i > 10
end-perform.
```

# How to handle end-of-file
When using the read staement you have AT END which you can use to tell the program you have reached the end of the file

