# What is COBOL and what are its primary uses?
COBOL stands for Common Oriented Business Languange and its a structured programming language that excels at
processing large volumes of data and handling business logic. Its primary uses are:
- Financial
- Guvernamental
- Administrative

# Explain the four divisions of a COBOL program?
- IDENTIFICATION DIVISION: Contains metadata of the program
- ENVIRONMENT DIVISION: System-specific configuration and file handling
- DATA DIVISION: Where you can defined structures and variables used in the program
- PROCEDURE DIVISION: Where you the main logic of the program resides

# What is the difference between WOKRING-STORAGE and LOCAL-STORAGE?
in working you define global variables that will persists throughout the execution of the program
while local-storage variables are initialized each time the program is called

# Explain the purpos of the PIC clause?
It helps define the type of data a certain variable will handle, you have different types of data:
- Alphabetical
- Alphanumeric
- Numeric
- Decimal
- Editing symbols

# What is the differnce between PERFORM and CALL statements?
Perform is used to call internal routines or procedures, while with call you can use external defined routines
and pass parameters

# How do you define and use tables in cobol?
To use arrays or tables in cobol you have to use the occurs clause, you can traverse a table using two different formats
- Subscript: Is a separate variable, a number
    - Requires runtime calculation
    - Slower
- Index: Is directly declared with the table 
    - Stores displacement directly
    - More efficient
    - Required for SEARCH and SEARCH ALL
    - In large tables index usage is more eficcient?

SEARCH works with index and SEARCH ALL requires the table to be sorted

# Wat are the different file organization methods in COBOL?
There are 3 types of file organization 
- sequential
- indexed
- relative

and there are also 3 types of file access
- sequential
- random
- dynamic

# Explain the concept of redifines in COBOL?
REDIFINES clause allows the same storage area to be interpreted as different data structures