# Interview 4

1. What is cobol and what are its primary uses?
Cobol stands for Common Business oriented languge and its a high level programming languge specialized in processing large volumes of data and its found in financial and administrative systems
has a english like sintax and its used in critical system across banking, ensurance and goverment

2. Explain the four divisions of a COBOL program
Wrinting programs in cobol has a 4 division structure first
- IDENTIFICATION DIVISION: Where we put metadata about the program, id, author name etc
- ENVIRONMENT DIVISION: Inside this division we define OUTPUT and INPUT things and system configurations
- DATA DIVISION: Where we define variables, constants that the program will use
- PROCEDURE DIVISION: WE put here the logic of the program and will use the variables defined in the data division

3. WHats the difference between working-storage section and local-storage section? 
working storage retains its values througout program execution and between calls while local-storage variables are reinitialized each time the program is called
and dotn persist between calls

4. Explain the purpose of the picture clause?
PIC clause is used to define the data type of a variable, in cobol there are different data types like:
- Alphabatic
- Alphanumeric
- Numeric (Decimal and decimal point)
- Editing symbols

5. Whats the difference between PERFORM and CALL statements?
Perform executes internal procedures (paragraphs or sections) within the same program. CALL invokes external programs or subprograms creating a new execution context

6. How do you define and use tables in COBOL?
Tables are defined using the occurs clause and can be accessed using subscripts or an index

``` cobol
01 mont-table.
    05 month-name pic x(10) occurs 5 times
```
It is faster to use an index as this already stores the offset for the current element meanwhile with subscripts it is necesary
to perform some calculations before accessing, so with large tables you have to use an index besides that when working with
SEARCH and SEARCH ALL is mandatory

7. What are the different file organization in cobol?
There are different file organization in cobol:
- sequential
- indexed
- relative

8. Explain the concept of REDEFINES in cobol:
This helps to interpret the same storage area as a different data structure

17. What is the difference between STOP RUN and GOBACK?
Stop run terminates the entire program execution while GOBACK returns control to the calling program or system

20. What is the purpose of the LINKAGE SECTION?
Is used in submodules for parameter definition, it does not allocate storage, the memory is allocated by the caller program