# Job
JOB is a unit of work, a bridge between a running program and the OS, its composed of JCL instructions
that tell where to find the input, how to process it and where the output should go 

The OS uses the Job Entry System (JES/JES2/JES3) to receive the submitted jobs, run/schedule them for 
processing, and manage the output


- JES decides the priority of the JOB execution based on CLASS and PRTY parameters in the job statments
- When the JOB is completed, the allocated resorces and spaces are released

A job statement with all its parameters is also called as JOB CARD
A job card is used to:
- Identify the JOB uniquely
- provide acconting information
- provide parameters treated as global
- provide info how to run the job
- identify user info

The job card parameters that are very specific about their position are called as positional parameters
these are mandatory for the OS and they start immediately after the JOB keyword with space gap

there are two positional parameters in the JOB card:
- Accounting info
- programmer name

## Accounting info
- is the billing name to which the CPU processing time for the entire job is billed
- it should code as the first parameter in the JOB card
- it is mandatory and should be within '()'
- should not exceed 143 characters

# Keyword parameters

## CLASS
Is used to classify the jobs, based on how much time they are running, SHORT or LONG run jobs

- (A-Z,0-9)

## MSGCLASS
Is used to specify the output device to where the system and JCL messages are routed
- (A-Z,0-9)

## MSGLEVEL
Controls the printign of job messages in the output listing or job log

```
MSGLEVEL=([statements],[execution-status])
```

- statements:
    - 0, only job statements
    - 1, all statements
    - 2, only jcl statements
- execution-status:
    - 0, print allocation and termination messages only when JOB abnormally
    - 1, print allocation and termination when JOB ended either normally or abnormally

## PRTY
Assign a selection priorty to jobs within the same class

## TIME
Used to speficy the maximum CPU utilization time allowed for the job to execute. The system will 
automatically cancel the job execution if the execution time exceeds the specified time

```
TIME=([MINUTES, SECONDS]) {1440} {NOLIMIT} {MAXIMUM}
```

## REGION
Used to specify the amount of central or virtual memory requried to execute a job. 
the system applies the region parameter value to each step of the job

```
REGION={VALUEK}/{VALUEM}
```

- Valuek is used to specify the storage in KiloBytes, 7-digit value (1,2096129KB) ()
- ValueM, megabytes, 4-digit vale from 1 to 2047

## NOTIFY
Is used to notify the user about the job status

## RESTART
Restart is used to restart the job execution from a specific step

## COND
Is used to specify conditional processing within JCL, The job processing will continue when the condition
is false, and terminates when its true


```
COND=(RC, RO)
```

- RC: 0-4095
- RO: GT, GE, EQ, LT, LE, NE

# EXEC statements
The main purpose of this statement is to tell the OS which program/utility to run in the step,
input and outpt datasets, any other parameters or options. JCL can have up to 255 steps


```
//[stepname] EXEC parameters [comments]

```

## Parameters
Exec statement parameters are treated as local to the step and only apply to the specific step

### PGM
PGM parameter is used to specify the program that needs to be run by the system, needs to be a clean compiled program ready to execute

```
//[] EXEC PGM=SAMPLE
```

### PROC
Is used to specify the procedure that needs to be run by the system. can be instream or catalogued

```
//[] EXEC PROC=
//[] EXEC []
```


1. What is JCL? 
It stands for Job Control Language, it is a command language used in IBM mainfram operating systems.
JCL is used to instruct the system on how to run batch jobs

2. What is the use of JCL?
JCL is used to identify the program to be executed, the inputs requried, and the location of the input/output data. It informs the OS about these requirements through job control statements

3. What are the types of job control statements?

- JOB STATEMENTS
- EXEC STATEMENTS
- DD (DATA DEFINITION)  

4. What does a JCL statement consists of?
A JCL statement typically consists of the following fields:
- Name field
- Operation field
- Operand field
- Comments

5. What are the differnces between JES2 and JES3?
Both are Job Entry Subsystems in IBM mainframes that manage job processing

JES2:
- Processes jobs individually
- Jobs are queued and selected based on priority
- Each job is handled independently
- Allocates datasets at execution time
- More decentralized control

JES3:
- Uses centralized control
- Can dynamically control job restarts 
- Can pre-allocate datasets
- More centralized control

6. State the difference between positional parameter and keyworkd parameter?
Positional parameter must be in a fixed order while keyword allow flexible ordering

7. What is the difference between JOBLIB and the STEPLIB?
Both are to specify libraries where the system should search to find programs to execute

- JOBLIB: Placed at the beginning of a job, it applies to all steps within that job
- STEPLIB: Placed after an EXEC statement within a job step, it applies to only that step
- JCLLIB is used to specify procedure libraries for the program

8. What happens if both the JOBLIB and STEPLIB are specified?
The steplib takes precedence over the joblib when specified

9. What is the order of searching of the libraries in a JCL?
- STEPLIB
- JOBLIB
- System libraries

10. How to restart a job from STEP3 if it abends in STEP3?
add the restart parameter to the JOB statement REESTART=STEP3   

11. When should DISP=MOD be used?
The disp=mod parameter is used in JCL when yo want to append data to an existing sequential dataset

12. Why do you want to specify the REGION paramater in a JCL step?
The region parameter is used to define the maximum amount of memory a particular job can utilize

13. What does the TIME parameter signify? What does TIME=1440 mean?
Sets a limit on the CPU time that a job or a step can use. 
1440=No CPU time limit for that job or step