# Interview
1. What is JCL?
Stands for Job Control Language. It is the command language used in IBM mainframe operating system. Used to instruct the system on how to run batch jobs

2. What is the use of JCL?
Is used to identify the program to be executed, the inptus required, and the location of input/outptu data.
Informs the OS about these requirements through job control statements

3. What are the types of job control statements?
The main types are:
1. JOB statement
2. EXEC statement
3. DD statement

4. What does a JCL statement consists of?
- Name field
- Operationg field (EXEC, DD, JOB)
- Operand field

5. What are the differences between JES2 and JES3?
Both are Job Entry Subsystems, that manage job processing

JES2:
- Processes jobs individually
- Jobs are queued and selected based on priority
- Each job is handled independently
- Allocates datasets at execution time
- Simpleter to configure

JES3:
- Uses centralized control
- Jobs can be pre-sequenced for optimized execution
- Can dynamically control job restarts
- Can pre-allocate datasets
- More centralized control complex


6. State the difference between positional parameter and keyword parameter JCL

Positional parameter: They must be specified in a fixed order
Keyword paramter: flexible order

7. What is the difference between the JOBLIB and the STEPLIB statement?
Both are to specify the libraries to find programs to executes
- JOBLIB is placed at the beginning of the job, it applies to all steps within that job
- STEPLIB: is placed after EXEC statement within a job stop, only applies to that STEP

8. What happens if both JOBLIB and STEPLIB are specified?
STEPLIB takes precedence for the specific step, first STEPLIB and the JOBLIB

9. What is the order of searching of the libraries in JCL?
1. STEPLIB
2. JOBLIB
3. System libraries

9. How to restart a job from STEP3 if it abends in STEP3?
RESTART=STEP3. This directs the system to begin execution from STEP3

10. When should DISP=MOD be used?
When you want to append data to an existing sequential dataset (PS)

11. Why do you want to specify the REGION parameter in a JCL step?
The region parameter is used to define the maximum amount of memory a particular job

12. What does the TIME parameter signify? What does TIME=1440 mean?
Sets the limit on CPU time that a job or step can use. 

TIME=1440 indicates that there is no CPU time limit for that job or step

13. How do you check the syntax of a JCL without running it?
