# Bind process

The bind process takes the DBRM (Database Request Module) generated from the precompilation of a COBOL + DB2 program. 
It links the DBRM to a package or plan to establish the connection between an application program and its specific DB2 database. 
This process ensures that the SQL statements in the program are optimized, validated, and authorized for execution within the DB2 database.


The bind step is essential because:

- It establishes a link between the COBOL program and the DB2 database.
- It ensures that SQL statements are optimized for performance.
- It validates whether the program has the necessary privileges to access DB2 objects.

IKJEFT01 utility is used to bind the DBRM to the plan or package.

```
//MTH001B JOB MSGLEVEL=(1,1),NOTIFY=&SYSUID
//**************************************************
//*  DB2 BIND JCL
//**************************************************
//BIND     EXEC PGM=IKJEFT01
//STEPLIB  DD  DISP=SHR,DSN=MTHA10.DBAG.SDSNEXIT
//         DD  DISP=SHR,DSN=MTHA10.SDSNLOAD  
//DBRMLIB  DD  DSN=MTH001.COBDB2.DBRMLIB,DISP=SHR
//SYSTSIN  DD  *
  DSN SYSTEM (system-name)
  BIND  PACKAGE (package-name) or PLAN (plan-name) - 
        MEMBER    (program-name)      - 
        ACTION    (action-options)    -
        ISOLATION (isolation-options) -
        VALIDATE  (validate-options)  -
        RELEASE   (release-options)   -
        EXPLAIN   (explain-options)   -
        OWNER     (owner-id)          -
        QUALIFIER (qualifier-name)    -
        ENCODING  (encoding-options)
  END
/*
//SYSPRINT DD  SYSOUT=*
//SYSTSPRT DD  SYSOUT=*
//SYSUDUMP DD  SYSOUT=*
```


# BIND -
BIND is the process of finding the optimized access path to retrieve the data from the DB2 for the SQLs coded in the program.
The BIND process also checks some of the syntax errors of DB2 statements. For Example - Whenever we use the GROUP BY and ORDER BY clause, we get a BIND error if we can't specify the column in SELECT.
It takes DBRM as input and generates the optimized access path with the help of an optimizer that considers the factors below -
Table size
Number of columns retrieving
Number of rows retrieving
The availability of primary key
The availability of Foreign key
And many more.

# PACKAGE (package-name) -
A compiled and bound version of SQL statements from a single DBRM contains an optimized access path (OAP) generated by the optimizer of the BIND Process.
The package is an intermediate component between the DBRM and PLAN.
It is a non-executable component and can contain one or more DBRMs.
The package's main advantage is that the rebound is not required when changing the sub-program. Compiling subprograms alone is only sufficient.
We should bind the packages locally regardless of whether they are local or remote.

# 